Hi folks, welcome back.
This is Professor
Chris Geczy again.
In this module we'll be talking
about what some have
come to consider,
to be the backbone
of Fintech today,
and certainly in the future,
Artificial Intelligence.
We'll take a very
high level view,
a general view of the role of
Artificial Intelligence in
the area Financial Services,
Fintech Robo Advisory and
related adjunct arenas.
Here's a thing you need
to think about as we talk
about the role of
artificial intelligence.
At its core, it's about
dimension reduction,
it's about efficiency,
it's about seeing patterns
in data or input,
information structured
or unstructured
that lends value in
financial services.
Artificial intelligence has had
a notable history in
science and economics.
Some Identify the famous
scientist Alan Turing
in the 1940s as having developed
the first theory
underlying the notion of
sentient algorithms
or sentient machines
in defining Artificial
Intelligence.
Turing, again famously thought
of a machine that could
program itself and
learn from inputs and experience,
to simulate humanity.
A famous test called
the Turing Test is
a baseline notion of
a self-recognizing
machine intelligence.
For example, if an algorithm or
an evaluator cannot
tell the difference
between two parties
it has not yet seen,
say a human and a computer,
then the machine via
conversation could be
considered to be displaying
intelligent behavior.
So one of the oldest
definitions of
Artificial Intelligence makes
direct reference to humanity.
Of course, our conversation
about what it
ultimately means to be
intelligent or self-aware comes
down to your metaphysics.
It comes down to
your ideological beliefs.
It involves philosophical issues
beyond that which we're
going to cover here.
However, many have
treated this over
the years both thinking about
the possibilities and
potentially the challenges and
dangers of machines sentients.
In recent times, that's
arisen in conversations
about regulation,
auditing, and safety of
algorithmic approaches
in all parts of life.
A colleague recently asked
me a question that I
felt was surprising.
He asked me about
Big Data in finance.
Specifically he
asked the question:
Does finance ever
deal with Big Data?
My response of course
was that well,
finance invented Big Data.
That might not
exactly be true from
all viewpoints but it's
certainly the case
that financial firms
have involved
technology for decades and
perhaps even hundreds of years.
For example, in the late 1800s
the first stock ticker was
invented just before
Thomas Edison
developed his own model
for tickers,
which was ultimately
monetized by Western Union.
Financial firms also were
early adopters of
computers back then,
what we call mainframe computers,
as well as databases that
could house and rapidly
retrieve structured data
in the form of numerics.
Today, this arms race
is hotter than ever
and Artificial Intelligence,
natural language processing,
the reading and understanding
of unstructured data
including images,
neural networks,
which represent to
those who are technically
oriented non-parametric
regressions,
and Big Data analytics are
all at the cutting edge,
the vanguard of future.
Twenty-five years ago,
if we were thinking
about accessing
various finance databases like
the famous Center for Research
and Security Prices database,
the CRISP database or others,
we typically needed
to bear the cost of
both time and monetary expenses
for direct access.
They have to have a
computer terminal
and maybe a license.
Today, accessing
Big Data is achievable
rapidly in smaller formats
and even on phones,
which are today of
course ubiquitous.
All that having been said,
most areas of finance are still
oriented around humanity.
Some would call it
not a quantitative
pure model but a
quantimental model.
Ultimately with respect
to advisory activities,
unless you believe that
three million years of
human advancement has
resulted in simply an app,
the idea of interaction,
the ability to trust
activities has
confronted the notion of
algorithmic trust and
the role of humans.
Computers can simulate humanity,
especially in routine tasks
like on-boarding accounting,
reporting, and in
some cases regulatory,
oversight, and so on.
But the human almost surely
has not yet lost its role.
Now the core definitions of
Artificial Intelligence range
among various characteristics
across official sources.
The Oxford Living Dictionary
describes artificial
intelligence as 'the theory and
development of
computer systems that
are themselves able to perform
tasks requiring under
normal circumstances direct
human intelligence',
and that could be
understanding of images,
recognizing text or speech,
making decisions in
an unstructured environment
with or without
partial rules or the advent
of partial structures,
including translation
across languages and
not just human languages but
various languages
understandable by machines.
Merriam Webster's Dictionary
describes Artificial
Intelligence as,
a branch of computer
science dealing
with again the simulation
of intelligent behavior
human behavior in computers
presumably or the capability of
a machine to imitate
intelligent human behavior.
Others have identified
Artificial Intelligence
as aiming to try to
understand tasks,
processes, and of course
products that encode them
toward the application
of solutions
that involve
self-directed learning.
Which some would suggest
is the equivalent
of reasoning,
self-awareness, perception,
and problem-solving
in a manner that
is at least from
an observational perspective,
how humans are able to perform.
Areas in which Artificial
Intelligence relate to
other disciplines like
mathematics, computer,
linguistic, psychology and
other sciences link back
directly to the notion and
perception of what
humanity looks like.